Kill Team is a tactical combat miniatures game set in the grim dark future of the 41st Millennium. Two rival teams of highly
trained operatives battle and complete objectives to achieve victory. The rules presented here are simplified from those
found in the Kill Team Core Book. They are intended for introductory, fast or easy play. A game is normally played with a
mission from a mission pack, but you can play without one to learn the basic mechanics of the game. Some terms will be
highlighted in orange, these are explained in more detail in their corresponding section of the Lite Rules. Rules for kill teams
are available for free online at warhammer-community.com or on Warhammer 40,000 Kill Team: The App.
SET UP
Each player selects a kill team and gathers their Citadel miniatures (operatives) for
those teams, alongside their free online rules, a killzone – 30" x 22" game board (unless
otherwise specified) and terrain – a measuring device in inches, 10 six-sided dice (D6),
tokens and markers.
Set up the killzone, then randomly determine one player to have initiative. The player
with initiative selects a drop zone from the mission map. If you're not playing a mission,
the player with initiative selects one edge of the killzone to be theirs; the opposite edge is
their opponent's. Each player’s drop zone is within 3" of their killzone edge.
Starting with the player with initiative, players alternate setting up one third of their kill
team (rounding up). When a player sets up an operative, it must be wholly within their
drop zone and be given a Conceal order (place the corresponding token next to it).
Engage Order
An operative with an Engage order can perform actions as
normal and counteract.
A battle includes four turning points (unless specified otherwise). Each turning point
includes a Strategy and Firefight phase.
STRATEGY PHASE
Each player rolls one D6: whoever rolls highest decides who has initiative; if it’s a tie,
the player who doesn’t currently have initiative decides. Players start the battle with
2CP each to spend on ploys. In the first Strategy phase, they each gain 1CP. In each
Strategy phase after the first, the player with initiative gains 1CP, while the player
without gains 2CP. Ploys cost 1CP each.
Each player readies all friendly operatives (order token ready side up). Starting
with the player who has initiative, players alternate using a STRATEGIC GAMBIT
or passing, until each player passes in succession. Every strategy ploy is also a
STRATEGIC GAMBIT. Each player cannot use each STRATEGIC GAMBIT more than
once per turning point.
FIREFIGHT PHASE
The players alternate activating ready friendly operatives, starting with the player
who has initiative. Whenever an operative activates, first select its order (Engage or
Conceal). It then performs actions, and is known as the active operative while doing so.
Each action costs AP, and you cannot spend more AP during an operative’s activation
than its APL. Unless otherwise specified, an operative cannot perform the same action
more than once during its activation. When the operative has finished performing
actions, it’s expended (order token expended side up). When all operatives are
expended, the turning point ends.
Players can spend their CP on firefight ploys in this phase, including the Command
Re-roll firefight ploy (below). Ploys cost 1CP each and, other than Command Re-roll,
each player cannot use each ploy more than once per turning point.
COMMAND RE-ROLL
Use this firefight ploy after rolling your attack or defence dice. You can re-roll one of
those dice.
LITE RULES
BEGIN THE BATTLE
Ready Expended
Conceal Order
An operative with a Conceal order is not a valid target while
in cover, but it cannot perform Shoot or Charge actions.
Ready Expended
ACTIONS
REPOSITION 1AP
Move the operative no more than its Move stat to a location it can be placed. It can’t
move within control range of enemy operatives.
An operative cannot perform this action while within control range of an enemy
operative, or during the same activation as the Charge or Fall Back action.
DASH 1AP
Move like a Reposition, except the operative cannot move more than 3" or climb.
An operative cannot perform this action while within control range of an enemy
operative, or during the same activation as the Charge action.
FALL BACK 2AP
Move like a Reposition, except the operative can move within control range of an
enemy operative, but cannot finish the move there.
An operative cannot perform this action unless an enemy operative is within its
control range. It cannot perform this action during the same activation as the
Reposition or Charge action.
CHARGE 1AP
Move like a Reposition, except the operative can move an additional 2". It can move
within control range of an enemy operative, and must finish the move there. If it
moves within control range of an enemy operative that no other friendly operatives
are within control range of, it cannot leave that operative’s control range.
An operative cannot perform this action while it has a Conceal order, if it's already
within control range of an enemy operative, or during the same activation as the
Reposition, Dash or Fall Back action.
SHOOT 1AP
Shoot with the operative, as explained on the following page.
An operative cannot perform this action while it has a Conceal order, or while within
control range of an enemy operative.
FIGHT 1AP
Fight with the operative, as explained on the following page.
An operative cannot perform this action unless an enemy operative is within its
control range.
© Copyright Games Workshop Limited 2024
Have all your operatives been activated?
COUNTERACT
If all your operatives are expended but your opponent’s aren’t, when you would activate
a ready friendly operative, one expended friendly operative with an Engage order can
counteract to perform a 1AP action for free. Each operative can only counteract once
per turning point, and cannot move more than 2" while doing so.
Active
operative
TERRAIN
Target operative
in cover
1"
2"
TERRAIN
Target operative
not in cover
1"
2" Active
operative
VALID TARGET
Some rules, most commonly shooting, will require you to determine a valid
target for an operative.
If the intended target has an Engage order, it’s a valid target if
it’s visible to the operative.
If the intended target has a Conceal order, it’s a valid target if
it’s visible to the operative and not in cover.
COVER
Cover is determined from one operative to another. An operative is in cover if
there's intervening terrain within its control range. However, it cannot be in
cover while within 2" of the other operative – it’s too close to hide.
DAMAGE
Operatives have a Wounds stat – the number of wounds they have. Damage
inflicted reduces their wounds accordingly.
Operatives with fewer that their starting wounds are wounded. Operatives
with fewer than half of their starting wounds are injured: subtract 2" from
their Move stat and worsen the Hit stat of their weapons by 1. Operatives with
wounds of 0 or less are incapacitated and removed.
VISIBLE
For something to be visible, the operative must be able to see it (look from
behind the operative and see if you can draw an unobstructed straight line
from its head to any part of what it's trying to see – excluding bases).
SHOOT
The player whose operative is performing the action is the attacker. The player
controlling the target is the defender. When rolling attack/defence dice, results
of 6 are always successes and are critical; all other successes are normal;
results of 1 are always a fail.
1. Attacker selects one of their operative’s ranged weapons.
2. Attacker selects an enemy operative that's a valid target for the active
operative and has no friendly operatives within its control range.
3. Attacker rolls attack dice – a number of D6 equal to the selected
weapon’s Atk stat. Each result that equals or beats the weapon’s Hit stat is
retained as a success. Each that doesn’t is discarded as a fail.
4. Defender rolls defence dice – three D6. Each result that equals or beats
the target’s Save stat is retained as a success. Each that doesn’t is
discarded as a fail. If the target is in cover, the Defender can retain one of
their defence dice as a normal success without rolling it.
5. Defender resolves successful defence dice, allocating them to block
successful attack dice.
• A normal success can block a normal success.
• Two normal successes can block a critical success.
• A critical success can block a normal success or a critical success.
6. Attacker resolves each unblocked attack dice (if any) to inflict damage on
the target.
• A normal success inflicts damage equal to the weapon's Normal Dmg
stat (first value of Dmg stat).
• A critical success inflicts damage equal to the weapon's Critical Dmg
stat (second value of Dmg stat).
FIGHT
The player whose operative is performing the action is the attacker. The player
controlling the target is the defender. When rolling attack dice, results of 6 are
always successes and are critical; all other successes are normal; results of 1
are always a fail.
1. Attacker selects an enemy operative within the active operative's control
range to fight against. That enemy operative will retaliate.
2. Both players select one of their operative's melee weapons.
3. Both players roll attack dice - a number of D6 equal to their selected
weapon's Atk stat respectively. Each result that equals or beats their
weapon's Hit stat is retained as a success. Each that doesn't is discarded
as a fail.
4. Starting with the attacker, players alternate resolving their successful
unblocked attack dice (or all remaining if their opponent has none). To
resolve a dice, they must strike or block:
• S trike: Inflict damage on the enemy operative. A normal success inflicts
damage equal to the weapon's Normal Dmg stat (first value of Dmg
stat). A critical success inflicts damage equal to the weapon's Critical
Dmg stat (second value of Dmg stat).
• Block: Allocate this dice to block one of your opponent’s unresolved
successes. A normal success can block a normal success. A critical
success can block a normal or critical success.
© Copyright Games Workshop Limited 2024
CONTROL RANGE
Something is within an operative's control range if it's visible to and within 1" of that
operative. Control range between operatives is mutual, therefore operatives are within
each other’s control range even if the above is only true for one of them.
WEAPON RULES
Accurate x: You can retain up to x attack dice as normal successes
without rolling them. If a weapon has more than one instance of
Accurate x, you can treat it as one instance of Accurate 2 instead
(this takes precedence over x rules above).
Balanced: You can re-roll one of your attack dice.
Blast x: The target you select is the primary target. After shooting
the primary target, shoot with this weapon against each secondary
target in an order of your choice (roll each sequence separately).
Secondary targets are other operatives visible to and within x of the
primary target, e.g. Blast 2" (they are all valid targets, regardless
of a Conceal order). Secondary targets are in cover and obscured if
the primary target was.
Brutal: Your opponent can only block with critical successes.
Ceaseless: You can re-roll any of your attack dice results of one
result (e.g. results of 2).
Devastating x: Each retained critical success immediately inflicts
x damage on the operative this weapon is being used against,
e.g. Devastating 3. If the rule starts with a distance (e.g. 1"
Devastating x), inflict x damage on that operative and each other
operative visible to and within that distance of it. Note that success
isn’t discarded after doing so – it can still be resolved later in
the sequence.
Heavy: An operative cannot use this weapon in an activation
or counteraction in which it moved, and it cannot move in an
activation or counteraction in which it used this weapon. If the
rule is Heavy (x only), where x is a move action, only that move is
allowed, e.g. Heavy (Dash only). This weapon rule has no effect on
preventing the Guard action.
Hot: After an operative uses this weapon, roll one D6: if the result
is less than the weapon’s Hit stat, inflict damage on that operative
equal to the result multiplied by two. If it’s used multiple times in
one action (e.g. Blast), still only roll one D6.
Lethal x+: Your successes equal to or greater than x are critical
successes, e.g. Lethal 5+.
Limited x: After an operative uses this weapon a number of times
in the battle equal to x, they no longer have it. If it’s used multiple
times in one action (e.g. Blast), treat this as one use.
Piercing x: The defender collects x less defence dice, e.g.
Piercing 1. If the rule is Piercing Crits x, this only comes into effect if
you retain any critical successes.
Punishing: If you retain any critical successes, you can retain one of
your fails as a normal success instead of discarding it.
Range x: Only operatives within x of the active operative can be
valid targets, e.g. Range 9".
Relentless: You can re-roll any of your attack dice.
Rending: If you retain any critical successes, you can retain one of
your normal successes as a critical success instead.
Saturate: The defender cannot retain cover saves.
Seek: When selecting a valid target, operatives with a Conceal order
cannot use terrain for cover. If the rule is Seek Light, they cannot
use Light terrain for cover. While this can allow operatives to be
targeted (assuming they’re visible), it doesn’t remove their cover
save (if any).
Severe: If you don’t retain any critical successes, you can change
one of your normal successes to a critical success. The Devastating
and Piercing Crits weapon rules still take effect, but Punishing and
Rending don’t.
Shock: The first time you strike with a critical success in each
sequence, also discard one of your opponent’s unresolved normal
successes (or one of their critical successes if there are none).
Silent: An operative can perform the Shoot action with this weapon
while it has a Conceal order.
Stun: If you retain any critical successes, subtract 1 from the APL
stat of the operative this weapon is being used against until the end
of its next activation.
Torrent x: Select a valid target as normal as the primary
target, then select any number of other valid targets within x
of the first valid target, but not within control range of friendly
operatives, as secondary targets, e.g. Torrent 2". Shoot with this
weapon against all of them in an order of your choice (roll each
sequence separately).
© Copyright Games Workshop Limited 2024